README.md, before:

# Mermaid to SVG Action

This GitHub Action uses the Mermaid CLI to convert Mermaid diagrams from changed `.mmd` or `.md` files into SVG images.

## Usage

You can use this action in your workflow by referencing it with `uni-3/render-mermaid-svg@v1` (once a version 1 is released).

### Example Workflow

This workflow automatically finds changed Mermaid files, generates SVG diagrams, and commits them back to the repository.

```yaml
name: 'Generate Mermaid Diagrams'

on:
  push:
    paths:
      - '**.md'
      - '**.mmd'

jobs:
  generate-diagrams:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - name: 'Checkout code'
        uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: 'Get changed files'
        id: changed-files
        uses: tj-actions/changed-files@v46
        with:
          files: |
            **.md
            **.mmd

      - name: 'Generate Mermaid diagrams'
        if: steps.changed-files.outputs.any_changed == 'true'
        uses: uni-3/render-mermaid-svg@v1
        with:
          input-files: ${{ steps.changed-files.outputs.all_changed_files }}
          icon-packages: "'@iconify-json/logos' '@iconify-json/mdi'"

      - name: Commit rendered svg files
        if: steps.changed-files.outputs.any_changed == 'true'
        uses: stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action@v6
        with:
          file_pattern: "*.svg"
          commit_message: "docs: Generate Mermaid diagrams"
```

This workflow will:
1.  Run on every push that includes changes to `.mmd` or `.md` files.
2.  Check out the repository's code.
3.  Use the `tj-actions/changed-files` action to get a list of modified files.
4.  If any relevant files have changed, it will run our Mermaid to SVG action.
5.  The generated SVG files will be placed in a `generated` folder in each source file's directory (by default).
6.  The `stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action` will commit the generated SVG files back to the repository.

## Inputs

| Name            | Description                                                                                                                              | Required | Default                        |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------ |
| `input-files`   | A space-separated string of changed `.mmd` or `.md` files.                                                                               | **Yes**  | N/A                            |
| `output-dir`    | Optional. The directory to place generated files. If not set, it creates a `generated` folder in each source file's directory.        | No       | `''`                           |
| `version`       | The `minlag/mermaid-cli` docker image version (tag).                                                                                     | No       | `latest`                       |
| `icon-packages` | Icon packages to pass to the `mmdc --iconPacks` flag. Each package should be quoted and space-separated.                                   | No       | `'@fortawesome/fontawesome-free'` |

Commit message:

feat: Release v1 (#2)
* feat: Release v1

- Add branding to action.yml
- Update README.md
- Add MIT LICENSE

* feat: Release v1

- Add branding to action.yml (use monitor icon)
- Update README.md
- Add MIT LICENSE

* feat: Release v1

- Add branding to action.yml (use monitor icon)
- Update README.md (remove unnecessary sentence)
- Add MIT LICENSE

* feat: Release v1

- Add branding to action.yml (use monitor icon)
- Update README.md (add link to architecture diagrams)
- Add MIT LICENSE

* feat: Release v1

- Add branding to action.yml (use monitor icon)
- Update README.md (add link to architecture diagrams)
- Add MIT LICENSE

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Mermaid to SVG Action

This GitHub Action uses the Mermaid CLI to convert Mermaid diagrams from changed `.mmd` or `.md` files into SVG images.
It can also render [Architecture Diagrams](https://mermaid.js.org/syntax/architecture.html) with specified icon packages.

## Usage


### Example Workflow

This workflow automatically finds changed Mermaid files, generates SVG diagrams, and commits them back to the repository.

```yaml
name: 'Generate Mermaid Diagrams'

on:
  push:
    paths:
      - '**.md'
      - '**.mmd'

jobs:
  generate-diagrams:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - name: 'Checkout code'
        uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: 'Get changed files'
        id: changed-files
        uses: tj-actions/changed-files@v46
        with:
          files: |
            **.md
            **.mmd

      - name: 'Generate Mermaid diagrams'
        if: steps.changed-files.outputs.any_changed == 'true'
        uses: uni-3/render-mermaid-svg@v1
        with:
          input-files: ${{ steps.changed-files.outputs.all_changed_files }}
          icon-packages: "'@iconify-json/logos' '@iconify-json/mdi'"

      - name: Commit rendered svg files
        if: steps.changed-files.outputs.any_changed == 'true'
        uses: stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action@v6
        with:
          file_pattern: "*.svg"
          commit_message: "docs: Generate Mermaid diagrams"
```

This workflow will:
1.  Run on every push that includes changes to `.mmd` or `.md` files.
2.  Check out the repository's code.
3.  Use the `tj-actions/changed-files` action to get a list of modified files.
4.  If any relevant files have changed, it will run our Mermaid to SVG action.
5.  The generated SVG files will be placed in a `generated` folder in each source file's directory (by default).
6.  The `stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action` will commit the generated SVG files back to the repository.

## Inputs

| Name            | Description                                                                                                                              | Required | Default                        |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------ |
| `input-files`   | A space-separated string of changed `.mmd` or `.md` files.                                                                               | **Yes**  | N/A                            |
| `output-dir`    | Optional. The directory to place generated files. If not set, it creates a `generated` folder in each source file's directory.        | No       | `''`                           |
| `version`       | The `minlag/mermaid-cli` docker image version (tag).                                                                                     | No       | `latest`                       |
| `icon-packages` | Icon packages to pass to the `mmdc --iconPacks` flag. Each package should be quoted and space-separated. e.g. `'@iconify-json/logos' '@iconify-json/mdi'` | No       | `` `@fortawesome/fontawesome-free` `` |
